Create variables.md (#1656)
PrestaShop/docs: themes/reference/templates/variables.md

---
title: Global variables for templates
weight: 50
---
# Global variables for templates

> Prestashop offers a list of predefined global variables to help you use relevant information in the Front End Smarty templates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PrestaShop offers preset global variables for the front office Smarty templates.
```

> The variables were set in [`classes/FrontController.php`](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/blob/8.1.x/classes/controller/FrontController.php):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The variables are set in [`classes/FrontController.php`](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/blob/8.1.x/classes/controller/FrontController.php):
```

```php
$templateVars = [
'cart' => $this->cart_presenter->present($cart),
	'currency' => $this->getTemplateVarCurrency(),
	'customer' => $this->getTemplateVarCustomer(),
	'language' => $this->objectPresenter->present($this->context->language),
	'page' => $this->getTemplateVarPage(),
	'shop' => $this->getTemplateVarShop(),
	'core_js_public_path' => $this->getCoreJsPublicPath(),
	'urls' => $this->getTemplateVarUrls(),
	'configuration' => $this->getTemplateVarConfiguration(),
	'field_required' => $this->context->customer->validateFieldsRequiredDatabase(),
	'breadcrumb' => $this->getBreadcrumb(),
	'link' => $this->context->link,
	'time' => time(),
	'static_token' => Tools::getToken(false),
	'token' => Tools::getToken(),
	'debug' => _PS_MODE_DEV_,

> ];

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    'cart' => $this->cart_presenter->present($cart),
    'currency' => $this->getTemplateVarCurrency(),
    'customer' => $this->getTemplateVarCustomer(),
    'language' => $this->objectPresenter->present($this->context->language),
    'page' => $this->getTemplateVarPage(),
    'shop' => $this->getTemplateVarShop(),
    'core_js_public_path' => $this->getCoreJsPublicPath(),
    'urls' => $this->getTemplateVarUrls(),
    'configuration' => $this->getTemplateVarConfiguration(),
    'field_required' => $this->context->customer->validateFieldsRequiredDatabase(),
    'breadcrumb' => $this->getBreadcrumb(),
    'link' => $this->context->link,
    'time' => time(),
    'static_token' => Tools::getToken(false),
    'token' => Tools::getToken(),
    'debug' => _PS_MODE_DEV_,
];
```

```
*You can dig into the code to get more information about what the variables do. Here is the list with a short description:*

## List of variables

### User Cart

> * `{$cart.products}`: List of products contained

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `{$cart.products}`: List of products from the current cart
```

Reviewer: Now that I see at it I think it would be better to just mention that there's a `$cart` variable and if you want to know all variables you can do:

```
{$cart|dump}
```

or see the corresponding `Presenter`, `CartPresenter`, the same goes for Customer, etc., otherwise, every time something changes in the presenter, we have to update the doc

Author: Totally agree! I will do that change

* `{$cart.totals}`: Array of total amounts (with taxes and without taxes)
* `{$cart.subtotals}`: Array of sub-totals amounts (products, discounts, etc.)
* `{$cart.products_count}`: Total of products added
* `{$cart.summary_string}`: Text to display the number of products
* `{$cart.labels}`:  Array of texts to show the tax information
* `{$cart.id_address_delivery}`: Primary key ID of the Delivery Address
* `{$cart.id_address_invoice}`: Primary key ID of the Invoice Address
* `{$cart.is_virtual}`: Boolean value to inform if it has virtual products
* `{$cart.vouchers}`: Array of vouchers were used
* `{$cart.discounts}`: Array of discounts
* `{$cart.minimalPurchase}`: Minimal amount for purchase
* `{$cart.minimalPurchaseRequired}`: Text for a minimal amount for purchase

### Currency (actual shop currency)

> * `{$currency.id}`: Currency Id in Prestashop database

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `{$currency.id}`: Currency ID in PrestaShop database
```

* `{$currency.name}`: Name of the currency
* `{$currency.iso_code}`: Currency ISO code
* `{$currency.iso_code_num}`: Currency ISO code number
* `{$currency.sign}`: Currency symbol

### Customer logged-in information
* `{$customer.lastname}`: User Lastname 
* `{$customer.firstname}`: User Firstname 
* `{$customer.email}`: User email
* `{$customer.last_passwd_gen}`: Last date user password were changed 

> * `{$customer.birthday}`: User birthday

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `{$customer.lastname}`: Customer last name 
* `{$customer.firstname}`: Customer first name 
* `{$customer.email}`: Customer email
* `{$customer.last_passwd_gen}`: The last date customer password was changed 
* `{$customer.birthday}`: Customer birthday
```

* `{$language.locale}`: Locale language format
* `{$language.language_code}`: Language letters code
* `{$language.is_rtl}`: Is RTL language
* `{$language.date_format_lite}`: Date format with the date only
* `{$language.date_format_full}`: Date format with hours and minutes
* `{$language.id}`: Language ID

### Actual Page information
* `{$page.title}`: Title information
* `{$page.canonical}`: Friendly-Url
* `{$page.meta}`: Array with page meta information
* `{$page.page_name}`: Internal page name
* `{$page.body_classes}`: Array body page information
* `{$page.admin_notifications}`: Array admin notifications
* `{$page.password-policy}`: Array password policy

### Shop information
* `{$shop.id}`: Shop ID
* `{$shop.name}`: Shop name
* `{$shop.email}`: Shop email
* `{$shop.registration_number}`: Shop legal information
* `{$shop.logo}`: Logo url
* `{$shop.logo_details}`: Array with logo image information
* `{$shop.stores_icon}`: Icon image url
* `{$shop.favicon}`: Favicon image url
* `{$shop.favicon_update_time}`: Favicon timestamp
* `{$shop.address}`: Array of full address information
* `{$shop.phone}`: Shop phone number
* `{$shop.fax}`: Shop fax number

### Urls 

> * `{$urls.base_url}`: Web site url base

Reviewer: These are not coming from Presenter so I'd keep it 👍🏻

* `{$urls.actions}`: An array of URLs representing available actions in the shop.
* `{$urls.no_picture_image}`: An array variable that contains the dimensions and URLs of all the "no picture" images used in the PrestaShop shop.
* `{$urls.pages}`: An array of URLs for different pages in PrestaShop (Home Page, Cart, Category, Search, etc.)

### Configuration
The values set for shop configuration.
* `{$configuration.display_taxes_label}`
* `{$configuration.display_prices_tax_incl}`
* `{$configuration.taxes_enabled}`
* `{$configuration.low_quantity_threshold}`
* `{$configuration.is_b2b}`
* `{$configuration.is_catalog}`
* `{$configuration.show_prices}`
* `{$configuration.opt_in}`
* `{$configuration.quantity_discount}`
* `{$configuration.voucher_enabled}`
* `{$configuration.return_enabled}`
* `{$configuration.number_of_days_for_return}`
* `{$configuration.password_policy}`

### field_required 
Returns an array of errors indicating the fields that are required.
* `{$field_required}`

### breadcrumb
Returns an array containing the description and URL of all the paths that the user has browsed from the home page.
* `{$breadcrumb}`

> ### lin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### link
```
